In this video we'll talk about the functions that we can use with characters the CC type library includes
very simple and very useful functions that allow the Tessy of characters for various properties as well
as the conversion of characters from upper to lower or lower to upper case in order to use these functions
you must include CC type the functions all expect a single character in the case of the testing functions
that evaluate to true or false.
And the conversion functions return the converted character.
Let's see some of these functions
this table contains some of the functions and CC type that allow for testing of characters.
You call the function and pass in the character you wish to test in the parentheses.
The function then evaluates to true or false depending on whether the character has the property you're
testing or not.
Is alpha test to see if the character has a letter either uppercase or lowercase and evaluates to true
if it is or false otherwise is Al numb.
Test to see if the character is a letter or a digit is digit test to see if the character is a digit
is lower test to see if the character is a lowercase letter is print test to see if the character is
a printable character.
Is Punkt test to see if the characters are a punctuation character is up or test to see if the characters
an upper case letter and is space test to see if the character is a whitespace character.
There are a few other functions in CC type that I haven't listed in a table.
You can refer to the C plus docs for those.
Now let's see the conversion functions
the two character conversion functions are two lower and two upper two lower evaluates the lower case
equivalent of the character passed in and two upper The upper case equivalent.
If these functions can't perform the conversion then the function simply valuate to the character that
was passed in as you can see these functions are very handy.
They're also extremely efficient will use these functions in the next few videos.
When we talk more about strings in the next video we'll learn about C-style strings.
I'll see you there.